Introduce two Angular SSR posts (Getting started & Dynamic SSR) (#1591)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/angular/setup-dynamic-server-side-rendering-with-angular/index.md

---
layout: post
title: "Set up dynamic server-side rendering with Angular"
subhead: |
  Dynamically server-side rendering your pages per route using Angular Universal schematics.

> hero: angular-universal-motorcycle.jpeg

Reviewer: As with the other post, I'm not quite seeing how this image relates to the post. Maybe omit?

  Learn how to set up dynamic server-side rendering in your Angular applications.
authors:
  - markpieszak
tags:
  - angular
  - performance
  - ssr
  - angular-universal
---

_You can find the code samples from this article [on GitHub](https://github.com/trilonio/angular-universal-tutorial)_

In this post, you'll learn how to use the [Angular Universal schematics](https://www.github.com/angular/universal) to set up dynamic server-side rendering (SSR). SSR can give you more control over your search engine optimization (SEO) and social media previews and get faster [First Meaningful Paints](/first-meaningful-paint).

{% Aside %}

This post assumes you're already familiar with SSR and the Angular Universal schematics and their benefits. If you need a refresher on check out the [Getting started with server-side rendering in Angular](/getting-started-with-server-side-rendering-in-angular/) post.

{% endAside %}

## Dynamic Server-side rendering with Angular

Dynamic SSR is done at **_run time_**. With dynamic SSR, you'll need a Node.js server to handle incoming requests for routes by serializing your application to an HTML string that's then returned to the browser to be rendered.

> Occasionally your applications have very dynamic content or components. A common use case would be if you had routes that required SSR but had dynamic parameters as part of their url (ie: `/products/:id`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Occasionally your applications have very dynamic content or components. A common use case would be if you had routes that required SSR but had dynamic parameters as part of their URL (for example, `/products/:id`).
```

> Your Node.js server will be essentially serving as a middleman for when a specific product is requested, generating the content on the fly for the given URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Node.js server will essentially serve as a middleman when a specific product is requested, generating the content on the fly for the given URL.
```

> To achieve this easily, you'll need to install the `@nguniversal/express-engine` your Angular CLI application. Read more about installing the schematic in the [Getting started with server-side rendering in Angular](/getting-started-with-server-side-rendering-in-angular/) post.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve this, you'll need to install the `@nguniversal/express-engine` schematic in your Angular CLI application. Read more about installing the schematic in the [Get started with server-side rendering in Angular](/getting-started-with-server-side-rendering-in-angular/) post.
```
We don't say things will be easy because it may not be for all readers, and we don't want them to have a negative emotional response.

### How it all works

If you inspect the `server.ts` file in the sample application, you'll see that it's currently set up to handle _all_ incoming requests and dynamically render them server-side. Let's go over a few notable lines of `server.ts` to understand what they are doing.

You can see that the code is passing in the Angular Universal express-engine installed by the schematics:

```javascript/16-19
// The Universal express-engine (found @ https://github.com/angular/universal/tree/master/modules/express-engine)
app.engine('html', ngExpressEngine({
  bootstrap: AppServerModuleNgFactory,
  providers: [
    provideModuleMap(LAZY_MODULE_MAP)
  ]
}));

app.set('view engine', 'html');
app.set('views', DIST_FOLDER);

app.get('*.*', express.static(DIST_FOLDER, {
  maxAge: '1y'
}));

// All regular routes use the Universal engine
app.get('*', (req, res) => {
  res.render('index', { req });
});
```

> You may only want specific routes dynamically rendered on the server, and you can adjust this behavior to meet your requirements.  It's also possible to have some routes return the original `index.html`, allowing for standard client-side rendering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may only want specific routes dynamically rendered on the server, and you can adjust this behavior to meet your requirements.  It's also possible to have some routes return the original `index.html`, allowing for standard client-side rendering:
```
